A: Given numerous international trials showing noninferiority and the potential advantages of intravenous tenecteplase compared with alteplase, the new guidelines endorse the use of either alteplase or tenecteplase in the 4.5-hour thrombolytic treatment window.
A: Rapid thrombolytic treatment in eligible patients with disabling deficits, within the 4.5 hour window, without advanced imaging selection.
A: The guidelines provide support for extended window thrombolysis for select patients with stroke of unknown onset or 4.5 -- 9 hours from onset using advanced imaging criteria (eg, diffusion weighted imaging-fluid attenuated recovery or perfusion-based mismatch).
A: For patients with non-disabling (eg, isolated sensory syndrome) deficits in the 4.5-hour window, trials have failed to demonstrate benefit of thrombolysis. Dual antiplatelet therapy is preferred and recommended in this population.
A: COR 3: No Benefit. In the management of patients with AIS in the setting of LVO, preoperative administration of tirofiban before EVT is not useful to improve 90-day functional outcome
A: EVT has been established as a standard treatment for patients with AIS with large vessel occlusion (LVO) based on numerous randomized controlled trials. Recent evidence supports expanding EVT to populations previously considered ineligible. Specifically, several studies indicate that EVT benefits some patients with larger ischemic core strokes as determined by diagnostic imaging.
A: New studies have examined the role of adjuvant antithrombotic therapy, such as argatroban and eptifibatide, concurrently with IVT. These studies have shown no benefit and, therefore, adjuvant antithrombotic drugs are not recommended to enhance the outcomes from thrombolytic therapy.
A: Glycemic management in patients with AIS has been updated since the prior guidelines such that intensive glucose control to the range of 80 to 130 mg/dL is not recommended to improve clinical outcome and increases the risk of severe hypoglycemia.
A: For the first time, the guidelines include recommendations for interventional treatment in pediatric patients with AIS. Although much work remains to adapt prehospital and hospital stroke protocols for pediatric patients, expert consensus and recent studies highlight the importance of early stroke recognition in children and support the safety and potential benefit of endovascular interventions in select pediatric patients with AIS. These recommendations serve as a foundation for future
A: Mobile stroke units (MSU) enable rapid identification and treatment of thrombolytic-eligible patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Recent studies have highlighted the benefit of MSUs over conventional emergency medical services and, when available, the guideline now includes recommendations related to the implementation of MSUs, based on their safety and benefit.
A: COR 3: No Benefit. In patients with large hemispheric infarction 18 to 70 years of age, the use of IV glibenclamide does not result in improved functional outcome and is not recommended.
A: COR 2a. In patients with stroke with dysphagia, treatment with pharyngeal electrical stimulation (PES), can be beneficial to reduce dysphagia severity and decrease the risk of aspiration.
A: COR 3: No Benefit. In the management of patients with AIS in the setting of LVO, preoperative administration of tirofiban before EVT is not useful to improve 90-day functional outcome.
A: COR 1. In patients with AIS, with basilar artery occlusion, a baseline mRS score of 0 to 1, NIHSS score ≥10 at presentation, and PC-ASPECTS ≥6 (mild ischemic damage), EVT within 24 hours from onset of symptoms is recommended to achieve better functional outcome and reduce mortality.
A: COR 2a. In patients with minor (NIHSS score ≤5) noncardioembolic AIS or high-risk TIA (ABCD2 score ≥4) within 24 to 72 hours from stroke onset, or NIHSS score of 4 to 5 within 24 hours from onset, who did not receive IVT, with presumed atherosclerotic cause (≥50% stenosis of intracranial or extracranial stenosis that was likely to have accounted for clinical presentation or acute new infarctions on imaging of presumed large artery atherosclerosis origin), DAPT (clopidogrel and aspirin) for 21 days followed by SAPT is reasonable to reduce the 90-day risk of recurrent strokes.