A: COR 1. In adult patients with AIS presenting within 4.5 hours of symptom onset or last known well and eligible for IVT, tenecteplase at a dose of 0.25 mg/kg body weight (max 25 mg) or alteplase at a dose of 0.9 mg/kg body weight is recommended to improve functional outcomes.
A: COR 1. In adult patients with AIS who are eligible for IVT within 4.5 hours of symptom onset, treatment should be initiated as quickly as possible, assuring safe administration and avoiding potential delays associated with additional multimodal neuroimaging, such as CTA/MRA, and CT/MR perfusion imaging.
A: The guidelines provide support for extended window thrombolysis for select patients with stroke of unknown onset or 4.5 -- 9 hours from onset using advanced imaging criteria (eg, diffusion weighted imaging-fluid attenuated recovery or perfusion-based mismatch).
A: COR 2a. In patients with minor (NIHSS score ≤5) noncardioembolic AIS or high-risk TIA (ABCD2 score ≥4) within 24 to 72 hours from stroke onset, or NIHSS score of 4 to 5 within 24 hours from onset, who did not receive IVT, with presumed atherosclerotic cause (≥50% stenosis of intracranial or extracranial stenosis that was likely to have accounted for clinical presentation or acute new infarctions on imaging of presumed large artery atherosclerosis origin), DAPT (clopidogrel and aspirin) for 21 days followed by SAPT is reasonable to reduce the 90-day risk of recurrent stroke.
A: COR 3: No Benefit. In areas with well-coordinated SSOC and local hospital(s) proficient in thrombolysis delivery and secondary interhospital transfer, direct transport of patients with suspected LVO to a distant (eg, 45–60 min) TSC compared with transport to a local stroke center does not improve 3-month clinical outcomes.
A: COR1: In patients with AIS, with basilar artery occlusion, a baseline mRS score of 0 to 1, NIHSS score ≥10 at presentation, and PC-ASPECTS ≥6 (mild ischemic damage), EVT within 24 hours from onset of symptoms is recommended to achieve better functional outcome and reduce mortality.
A: New studies have examined the role of adjuvant antithrombotic therapy, such as argatroban and eptifibatide, concurrently with IVT. These studies have shown no benefit and, therefore, adjuvant antithrombotic drugs are not recommended to enhance the outcomes from thrombolytic therapy.
A: Glycemic management in patients with AIS has been updated since the prior guidelines such that intensive glucose control to the range of 80 to 130 mg/dL is not recommended to improve clinical outcome and increases the risk of severe hypoglycemia. Several new trials have assessed the efficacy and safety of blood pressure (BP) lowering after IVT and EVT in adult patients, providing new evidence that more intensive BP reduction does not improve functional outcome after IVT and may result in harm after EVT. Therefore, intensive systolic BP lowering to <140 mm Hg is not recommended even in the setting of complete reperfusion (eg, Thrombolysis In Cerebral Infarction grade 3 flow). Target 140-180 systolic blood pressures.
A: For the first time, the guidelines include recommendations for interventional treatment in pediatric patients with AIS. Although much work remains to adapt prehospital and hospital stroke protocols for pediatric patients, expert consensus and recent studies highlight the importance of early stroke recognition in children and support the safety and potential benefit of endovascular interventions in select pediatric patients with AIS.
A: Mobile stroke units (MSU) enable rapid identification and treatment of thrombolytic-eligible patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Recent studies have highlighted the benefit of MSUs over conventional emergency medical services and, when available, the guideline now includes recommendations related to the implementation of MSUs, based on their safety and benefit.
A: COR 3: No Benefit. In patients with large hemispheric infarction 18 to 70 years of age, the use of IV glibenclamide does not result in improved functional outcome and is not recommended.
A: COR 2a. In patients with stroke with dysphagia, treatment with pharyngeal electrical stimulation (PES), can be beneficial to reduce dysphagia severity and decrease the risk of aspiration.
A: COR 3: No Benefit. In the management of patients with AIS in the setting of LVO, preoperative administration of tirofiban before EVT is not useful to improve 90-day functional outcome.
A: The currently available stroke screening tools, developed for an adult population, do not accurately distinguish strokes from mimics in the pediatric population. Newer stroke screening tools to identify pediatric stroke have been adapted from existing adult scales, with the pediatric modification of the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (PedNIHSS) demonstrating good to excellent interrater reliability between child neurologists. In a small study, the Pediatric Rapid Arterial Occlusion Evaluation (PedRACE) demonstrated good interrater reliability between prehospital and ED pediatricians and child neurologists and good correlation with PedNIHSS.
A: COR 2a. In patients with minor (NIHSS score ≤5) noncardioembolic AIS or high-risk TIA (ABCD2 score ≥4) within 24 to 72 hours from stroke onset, or NIHSS score of 4 to 5 within 24 hours from onset, who did not receive IVT, with presumed atherosclerotic cause (≥50% stenosis of intracranial or extracranial stenosis that was likely to have accounted for clinical presentation or acute new infarctions on imaging of presumed large artery atherosclerosis origin), DAPT (clopidogrel and aspirin) for 21 days followed by SAPT is reasonable to reduce the 90-day risk of recurrent strokes.