Q: A 48 year-old female with a history of type 2 diabetes  and hyperlipidemia is brought to the emergency department after left sided weakness and expressive aphasia that begins 2 hours prior to arrival. Her stroke scale is 5. Non-contrast head ct shows no intracranial hemorrhage. What is the more effective form of thrombolytic treatment, intravenous tenecteplase or alteplase?
Q: A 64 year-old man with a history of hypertension presents to the emergency department 90 minutes after sudden onset of left facial droop and slurred speech. His NIH Stroke Scale score is 4, driven primarily by aphasia, which is felt to be a disabling deficit. Noncontrast head ct shows no intracranial hemorrhage. What is the most appropriate next step? 
Q: A 70 year old male is brought to the ED with a history of atrial fibrillation and is found to have left-sided weakness and neglect upon awakening. His last known well was approximately 10 hours earlier and his NIH stroke scale score is 4. Noncontrast head CT shows no intracranial hemorrhage. MRI of the brain shows restricted diffusions through the right middle cerebral artery on diffusion weighted imaging. However, there is no corresponding signal change on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery. What is the most appropriate next step? 
Q: A 59 year old woman with a history of hypertension presents to the ED 2 hours of sudden onset of numbness involving her right face. She denies weakness, speech difficulty, visual changes, or gait disturbances. Sensory testing reveals isolated decreased pinprick sensation over her face and hand. Her NIH Stroke Scale was a 1. Noncontrast head CT shows no intracranial hemorrhage. WHat is the recommended course of treatment for this patient?
Q: A 68-year-old man with a history of hypertension and atrial fibrillation develops sudden-onset right-sided weakness and aphasia at home. Emergency medical services arrive within 20 minutes of symptom onset. On exam, he has a National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score of 14. A local primary stroke center is 10 minutes away while a comprehensive thrombectomy-capable stroke center is available but 55 minutes away by ground transport. How should prehospital transport be directed in this patient?
Q: A 72 year old woman presents to the ED 4 hours after sudden onset of left sided weakness, aphasia, and rightward gaze deviation. On examination she has global aphasia and his NIH stroke Scale score is 19. Noncontrast head CT shows early ischemic changes in the right MCA territory. CT angiography shows an occlusion of the proximal right MCA  M1 segment. CT perfusion shows a large ischemic core with limited hypoperfused tissue. Given the large ischemic core, can endovascular thrombectomy be performed?
Q: A 68 year old man with a history of hypertension presents to the ED 3 hours after sudden onset of ride-sided weakness and slurred speech. On examination, he has a right facial droop and right arm weakness. His NIH Stroke Scale score is 9. Noncontrast head CT shows no intracranial hemorrhage and CT angiography reveals no large vessel occlusion. The patient is treated with intravenous thrombolysis and the stroke team debates whether adding an adjuvant antithrombotic agent might improve clinical outcomes. What is the most appropriate management decision? 
Q: A 68-year-old man with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension is admitted for acute ischemic stroke after presenting with right-sided weakness and dysarthria. He arrives 3 hours after symptom onset and receives appropriate reperfusion therapy. During hospitalization in the stroke unit, point-of-care glucose measurements range from 180 to 220 mg/d and his stolic blood pressure ranges from 155 to 165 mm Hg.  Based on current stroke guidelines, how should this patient's blood glucose and blood pressure be managed?
Q: A 12 year old previously healthy boy is brought to the ED after a sudden onset of right-sided weakness and difficulty speaking that began 90 minutes before arrival at school. On examination the patient is alert but has expressive aphasia. His NIH stroke scale score is 11. Non contrast head CT shows no intracranial hemorrhage. CT angiography shows an occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery, m1 segment. How should this patient’s stroke be managed according to current guidelines?
Q: A 62-year-old man with a history of hypertension develops sudden onset of left-sided weakness and slurred speech while at home. A mobile stroke unit (MSU) and conventional emergency services are both available and can be deployed immediately. What emergency service is preferred?
Q: A 54-year-old man with a history of hypertension presents to the emergency department 3 hours after sudden onset of left-sided weakness, gaze deviation, and decreased level of alertness. On examination, he has dense left hemiplegia and neglect, with a NIH Stroke Scale score of 22. Noncontrast head CT shows early ischemic changes involving more than one half of the right middle cerebral artery territory. Should intravenous glibenclamide be initiated?
Q: A 73-year-old woman is admitted after an acute ischemic stroke involving the right hemispheric region. After initial stabilization, she is noted to have difficulty swallowing, frequent coughing during oral intake, and a wet-sounding voice. A bedside swallow evaluation is abnormal, and a subsequent videofluoroscopic swallow study confirms moderate oropharyngeal dysphagia with aspiration of thin liquids. According to current stroke guidelines, how should dysphagia be managed in this patient?
Q: A 69-year-old man with a history of hypertension and atrial fibrillation presents to the emergency department 2 hours after sudden onset of right-sided weakness and aphasia. On examination, he has dense right hemiparesis and expressive aphasia, with a NIH Stroke Scale score of 17. Noncontrast head CT shows no intracranial hemorrhage, and CT angiography reveals an occlusion of the left proximal middle cerebral artery, M1 segment. He is an appropriate candidate for endovascular thrombectomy (EVT). How should the use of tirofiban be approached in this patient?
Q: A 63-year-old man with no prior neurologic disability (baseline mRS score of 0) is brought to the emergency department after sudden onset of vertigo, diplopia, dysarthria, and progressive weakness that began 6 hours earlier. On arrival, his NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score is 18 and PC-Apsects 7. How should this patient be managed?
Q: A 67-year-old woman with a history of hypertension and hyperlipidemia presented to the emergency department 18 hours after sudden onset of left arm weakness and mild slurred speech that resolved within 30 minutes. On arrival, her neurologic examination shows only subtle left hand clumsiness. Her NIH Stroke Scale score is 3. Brain MRI shows a small acute infarct in the right frontal cortex. CT angiography shows 70% stenosis of the right internal carotid artery. Cardiac monitoring and echocardiography show no evidence of marital fibrillation or other cardioembolic source. She did not receive intravenous thrombolysis. How should this patient’s antiplatelet therapy be managed?